Moving to Macbook
#################

:Date: 2015-05-12
:Author: Mandar Vaze
:slug: move-to-macbook
:category: thoughts
:tags: thoughts, osx

.. contents::

Background
==========

I have been meaning to buy a Macbook for quite some time. No doubt, they are way
above the average. The very first one I saw (in hand) years ago, was Macbook
air. It was so thin (and there was so much press coverage) I adored the thinness
and left it at that. There was anti-osx/apple "majority" in that startup, all
the developers used Linux, and the "boss" had iPad, and Macbook air. So it was
considered "business" machine (The cost also kinda justified that only the
executives could afford it)

Over the years, I started noticing more macs in the developer community. Couple
years ago, I attended an Advanced Python course. The instructor was using Mac,
not only that, one of the student was also using mac. Since we spent 3 days
together, I asked him a lot of questions about mac. Still nothing for another
year. Then one of the person I worked with (Earlier) bought Macbook air (used)
He used to be a die-hard ubuntu user. Things were changing. (When I met him
recently, turns out he installed Ubuntu on the Macbook air. People don't change
who they are.)

Then recently, one of my junior colleague bought Macbook pro. That probably was
the last straw on the camel's back. I couldn't/shouldn't say any more that it is
costly.

Why Mac (my reasons)
====================

I always wanted a laptop that was light and had great battery life. Macbook is
that, always. I didn't care so much for OS X. But I also knew that I could get
the great battery life only with OS X. (I checked with the person who installed
ubuntu on his Macbook air. Turns out he didn't get as great battery life, but
_he_ didn't care. He still has very light weight Ubuntu laptop, with better
screen)

I honestly and seriously looked at the "PC" alternatives. None came even closer
to the specs. When they did, they were costlier than Macbook Pro. In that sense,
Macs are not "expensive". Also, most high-end "PC" laptops these days seem to
come with touchscreen. That, I don't like. In that sense, I think Apple
understands that touchscreen market is iPad, and laptop is a totally different
market. So they kept them separate.

Choosing the model
==================

If you look on the net for the comparison with the air, you'll see that pro and
air are very close. For slightly(?) higher cost, pro is a better machine, for a
developer anyway. Also, if you buy in India, air comes only with 4GB RAM, while
pro comes with 8GB. Considering that macs can't be hardware upgraded, maxing out
the specs in the available budget is the only option. I thought 128GB SSD (Entry
level option) may be turn out to be restrictive, if I decide to dual-boot. So I
went with 256GB (512GB would have been even better, but the cost goes up)

15" has better specs (16GB default RAM) but it is heavy (and cost goes up)

The Wait
========

I had been "thinking" for almost 4 months. I asked my mac user friends for some
advice(Should I go for "older" model to save the money. They suggested to go
with the latest model) Yet I was not able to make up my mind whether I "need"
the mac. WAF (Wife Acceptance Factor) was also a concern, buy she easily agreed.
(I didn't wait to check "why" she agreed so easily, lest she changed her mind)

Finally, decided to take the plunge (It really was that) Normally people order
online, and "wait" for few days. But I was lucky. I purchased from someone who
supplied hardware at my wife's office. I did the payment around noon, and by
2PM, I had the laptop in my hand.

But in case you order online, there is a great discussion on quora on what to do
while waiting for your mac to arrive. I had done that and more research while I
was still making up my mind. e.g. Turns out OS X file system is case-insensitive
(but case preserving) Having used Linux (and \*nix) for over 2 decades, my
instincts were to convert the file system to case-sensitive (There is an option
to do that) But after enough warnings, I decided not to. (I know I am never
going to install Adobe products that won't install on case-sensitive file
system, or install "Steam", yet being new to OS X, I want to respect their
choice.) I had also known about iTerm2, Adium, homebrew and the likes.

First Impressions
=================

The screen is gorgeous. It is one thing to read about it, but to experience it,
is a completely different matter. Everything just looks better.

Trackpad is awesome. multi-touch gestures are natural. e.g. To see the
notification panel on the right, feels as if, you are using the touch screen to
"bring it in", except via the Trackpad.

Out of the box, battery remaining was shown as 12+ hours - Amazing. It is
unclear how the remaining battery life is calculated, because it keeps going up
and down. "Apps using significant energy" is a nice touch, Turns out Google
Chrome sucks battery, but over a period I realized that Firefox isn't any
better, neither is safari. I don't have the numbers, this is based on what is
reported as "Apps using significant energy".

(Teething) Problems
===================

During the First bootup, there is a step to automatically set the timezone based
on the location. But that did not work, so I had to set it up manually. No big
deal but ..

After selecting the timezone, I had to set the city. I was amazed to see that
Pune or Mumbai were not listed, but smaller cities like solapur, nanded, nagpur
were. I had to type in, then Found Pune. Not sure how the initial city list is
populated. Again, No big deal but ..

Having never used OSX, I didn't know "How to get started", was looking for
"Tour". Didn't find anything obvious. Was under "Finder -> help.

Macbok Pro Essentials "Free" book was suggested, at the end of the "Get to know
your Mac" It kept on downloading - but never could open it. So I asked for help
on the apple forum. Problem solved :
https://discussions.apple.com/thread/7021641


Concluding thoughts
===================

I think the move was worth it. Now there is no "going back". I know why people
love Mac from "this" side.

If you are a software developer, and can afford it, you should **definitely**
"switch"

If you *think* you can't afford it, think again ;)

If you can't afford *now*, start saving ;)
